add multi-signer docs (#11419)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/cert-management/custom-ca-k8s/index.md

This task shows how to provision Workload Certificates
using a custom certificate authority that integrates with the

> [Kubernetes CSR API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/). Different workload can get their certificate signed from different cert-signer. Each cert-signer is effectively a different CA. It is expected that workloads whose certificates are issued from the same cert-signer can talk MTLS to each other while workloads signed by different signers cannot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kubernetes CSR API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/). Different workloads can get their certificates signed from different cert-signers. Each cert-signer is effectively a different CA. It is expected that workloads whose certificates are issued from the same cert-signer can talk MTLS to each other while workloads signed by different signers cannot.
```

This feature leverages [Chiron](/blog/2019/dns-cert/), a lightweight component linked with Istiod that signs certificates using the Kubernetes CSR API.

For this example, we use [open-source cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io).

> Cert-manager has added [experimental Support for Kubernetes `CertificateSigningRequests`](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/kube-csr/) starting from version 1.4

Reviewer: change from to in or with? Add a period. Maybe:
```suggestion
Cert-manager has added [experimental Support for Kubernetes `CertificateSigningRequests`](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/kube-csr/) starting with version 1.4.
```

## Deploy Custom CA controller in the Kubernetes cluster

1. Deploy cert-manager according to the [installation doc](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/).
   {{< warning >}}
   Note: Make sure to enable feature gate: `--feature-gates=ExperimentalCertificateSigningRequestControllers=true`
   {{< /warning >}}

1. Create three self signed cluster issuers `istio-system`, `foo` and `bar` for cert-manager.
   Note: Namespace issuers and other types of issuers can also be used.

> 

Reviewer: You mention creating the issuers here, but there aren't any instructions. Thus this numbered bullet seems like it's missing something. I expect you want something done like mentioned at https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/selfsigned/#deployment?

Author: Thanks! I added the sample cluster issuer file.

> ## Export root certificate for cluster issuer

Reviewer: Maybe certificate**s** for **each** cluster issuer or for **the** cluster issuer**s**

Author: Change to `certificates for each cluster issuer`

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ export istioca=$(kubectl get clusterissuers istio-system -o jsonpath='{.spec.ca.secretName}' | xargs kubectl get secret -n cert-manager -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' |base64 -d)

Reviewer: I do notice that there is not space between the pipe and base64 while we do have spaces around the other pipes. Not sure if this really matters and is only a nit.

Author: this does not matter :)

[Kubernetes CSR API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/).
This feature leverages [Chiron](/blog/2019/dns-cert/), a lightweight component linked with Istiod that signs certificates using the Kubernetes CSR API.

> This task is split into three parts. The first part demonstrates how to use the Kubernetes CA itself to sign workload certificates.

Author: Yes, we can at least remove part1 since it is no longer supported.   Part3 is the only one which has e2e coverage

                      apiGroups:
                      - certificates.k8s.io
                      resourceNames:
                      - clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/foo
                      - clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/bar
                      - clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/istio-system
                      resources:
                      - signers
                      verbs:
                      - approve
    EOF
    $ istioctl install -f ./istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy the `proxyconfig-bar.yaml` in the `bar` namespace to define cert-signer for workloads under `bar` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the `proxyconfig-bar.yaml` in the `bar` namespace to define cert-signer for workloads in the `bar` namespace.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > ./proxyconfig-bar.yaml
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: ProxyConfig
    metadata:
      name: barpc
      namespace: bar
    spec:
      environmentVariables:
        ISTIO_META_CERT_SIGNER: bar
    EOF
    $ kubectl apply  -f ./proxyconfig-bar.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy the `proxyconfig-foo.yaml` in the foo namespace to define cert-signer for workloads under `foo` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the `proxyconfig-foo.yaml` in the foo namespace to define cert-signer for workloads in the `foo` namespace.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > ./proxyconfig-bar.yaml
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: ProxyConfig
    metadata:
      name: foopc
      namespace: foo
    spec:
      environmentVariables:
        ISTIO_META_CERT_SIGNER: foo
    EOF
    $ kubectl apply  -f ./proxyconfig-foo.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy the `httpbin` and `sleep` sample application in the `foo` and `bar` namespaces.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl label ns foo istio-injection=enabled
    $ kubectl label ns bar istio-injection=enabled
    $ kubectl apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml -n foo
    $ kubectl apply -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml -n foo
    $ kubectl apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml -n bar
    $ kubectl apply -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml -n bar
    {{< /text >}}

## Verify the network connectivity between `httpbin` and `sleep` within the same namespace

> When the workloads are deployed, above, they send CSR Requests with related signer info. Istiod forwards the CSR request to the custom CA for signing. The custom CA will use the correct cluster issuer or issuer to sign the cert back. Workloads under `foo` namespace will use  `foo` cluster issuers while workloads under `bar` namespace will use the `bar` cluster issuers. To verify that they have indeed been signed by correct cluster issuers, We can verify workloads under the same namespace can communicate will while workloads under the different namespace should not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the workloads are deployed, they send CSR Requests with related signer info. Istiod forwards the CSR request to the custom CA for signing. The custom CA will use the correct cluster issuer or issuer to sign the cert back. Workloads under `foo` namespace will use  `foo` cluster issuers while workloads under `bar` namespace will use the `bar` cluster issuers. To verify that they have indeed been signed by correct cluster issuers, We can verify workloads under the same namespace can communicate will while workloads under the different namespace cannot communicate.
```

> 1. Check network connectivity between service `sleep` and `httpbin` under `foo` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check network connectivity between service `sleep` and `httpbin` in the `foo` namespace.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export SLEEP_POD_FOO=$(kubectl get pod -n foo -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD_FOO -n foo -c sleep curl http://httpbin.foo:8000/html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
      </head>
      <body>
          <h1>Herman Melville - Moby-Dick</h1>

          <div>
            <p>
              Availing himself of the mild...
            </p>
          </div>
      </body>
     {{< /text >}}

> 1. Check network connectivity between service `sleep`  under `foo` namespace and `httpbin` under `bar` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check network connectivity between service `sleep` in the `foo` namespace and `httpbin` in the `bar` namespace.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export SLEEP_POD_FOO=$(kubectl get pod -n foo -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={    .items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD_FOO -n foo -c sleep curl http://httpbin.bar:8000/html
    upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers. reset reason: connection failure, transport failure reason: TLS error: 268435581:SSL routines:OPENSSL_internal:CERTIFICATE_VERIFY_FAILED
   {{< /text >}}

## Cleanup

* Remove the `istio-system`, `foo` and `bar` namespaces:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete ns istio-system
    $ kubectl delete ns foo
    $ kubectl delete ns bar
    {{< /text >}}

## Reasons to use this feature

* Custom CA Integration - By specifying a Signer name in the Kubernetes CSR Request, this feature allows Istio to integrate with custom Certificate Authorities using the Kubernetes CSR API interface. This does require the custom CA to implement a Kubernetes controller to watch the `CertificateSigningRequest` Resources and act on them.

> * Better multi-tenancy - By specifying different cert-signer for different workload, certificate for different tenant's workloads can be signed by different CA.

Reviewer: Not sure if we need all the multiples or not
```suggestion
* Better multi-tenancy - By specifying a different cert-signer for different workloads, certificates for different tenant's workloads can be signed by different CAs.
```

    $ kubectl delete ns bookinfo
    {{< /text >}}

## Part 3: Using Custom CA with different signers for different workloads

For this example, we use [open-source cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io).

> cert-manager has added [experimental Support for Kubernetes CertificateSigningRequests](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/kube-csr/) from v1.4.

Author: This is cert-manager's version

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: for clarification, could we add "Each cert-signer is effectively a different CA. It is expected that workloads whose certificates are issued from the same cert-signer can talk MTLS to each other while workloads signed by different signers cannot."

### Deploy Custom CA controller in the Kubernetes cluster

> 1. Deploy cert-manager according to [installation doc](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy cert-manager according to the [installation doc].(https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/)
```

   {{< warning >}}

>    Note Make sure to enable featureGate: --feature-gates=ExperimentalCertificateSigningRequestControllers=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Note: Make sure to enable featureGate: --feature-gates=ExperimentalCertificateSigningRequestControllers=true
```

   {{< /warning >}}

1. Create three selfSigned clusterIssuers `istio-system` , `foo` and `bar` for cert-manager.

### Export the clusterIssuer's root certificate

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export istioca=$(kubectl get clusterissuers istio-system -o jsonpath='{.spec.ca.secretName}' | xargs kubectl get secret -n cert-manager -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' |base64 -d)

    $ export fooca=$(kubectl get clusterissuers foo -o jsonpath='{.spec.ca.secretName}' | xargs kubectl get secret -n cert-manager -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' |base64 -d)

    $ export barca=$(kubectl get clusterissuers bar -o jsonpath='{.spec.ca.secretName}' | xargs kubectl get secret -n cert-manager -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' |base64 -d)
    {{< /text >}}

### Deploying Istio

1. Deploy Istio on the cluster using `istioctl` with the following configuration.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > ./istio.yaml
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    spec:
      meshConfig:
        defaultConfig:
          proxyMetadata:

>             ISTIO_META_CERT_SIGNER: istio-system

Reviewer 2: what is this used for again? is this the default signer?

Author: this is the default signer- I will add an explanation in the doc for this.

        caCertificates:
        - pem: |
          $istioca
          certSigners:
          - clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/istio-system
        - pem: |
          $fooca
          certSigners:
          - clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/foo
        - pem: |
          $barca
          certSigners:
          - clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/bar
      components:
        pilot:
          k8s:
            env:
            - name: CERT_SIGNER_DOMAIN
              value: clusterissuers.cert-manager.io
            - name: EXTERNAL_CA
              value: ISTIOD_RA_KUBERNETES_API
            - name: PILOT_CERT_PROVIDER
              value: k8s.io/clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/istio-system
            overlays:
              - kind: ClusterRole
                name: istiod-clusterrole-istio-system
                patches:
                  - path: rules[-1]
                    value: |
                      apiGroups:
                      - certificates.k8s.io
                      resourceNames:

>                       - clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/*

Reviewer 2: nit: this permission seems too wide? can we narrow it down to the three specific signers?

                      resources:
                      - signers
                      verbs:
                      - approve
    EOF
    $ istioctl install -f ./istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy the `proxyconfig-bar.yaml` in the bar namespace to define cert-signer for workloads.

Reviewer: define a cert-signer?

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > ./proxyconfig-bar.yaml
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: ProxyConfig
    metadata:
      name: barpc
      namespace: bar
    spec:
      environmentVariables:
        ISTIO_META_CERT_SIGNER: bar
    EOF
    $ kubectl apply  -f ./proxyconfig-bar.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy the `proxyconfig-foo.yaml` in the foo namespace to define cert-signer for workloads.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > ./proxyconfig-bar.yaml
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: ProxyConfig
    metadata:
      name: foopc
      namespace: foo
    spec:
      environmentVariables:
        ISTIO_META_CERT_SIGNER: foo
    EOF
    $ kubectl apply  -f ./proxyconfig-foo.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy the `httpbin` and `sleep` sample application in the `foo` and `bar` namespace.

Author: Thanks @ericvn for the suggestions! I will update the PR accordingly.

When the workloads are deployed, above, they send CSR Requests with related signer info. Istiod forwards the CSR request to the custome CA for signing. The custom CA will use the correct cluster issuer to sign the cert back. Workloads under `foo` namespace will use  `foo` clusterIssuers while workloads under `bar` namespace will use the `bar` clusterIssuers. To verify that they have indeed been signed by correct clusterIssuers, We can verify workloads under the same namespace can communicate will while workloads under the different namespace will be broken.

1. Check network connectivity between service `sleep` and `httpbin` under `foo` namespace.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export SLEEP_POD_FOO=$(kubectl get pod -n foo -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD_FOO -n foo -c sleep curl http://httpbin.foo:8000/html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
      </head>
      <body>
          <h1>Herman Melville - Moby-Dick</h1>

          <div>
            <p>
              Availing himself of the mild...
            </p>
          </div>
      </body>
     {{< /text >}}

> 1. Check network connectivity between service `sleep`  under `foo` namespace and `httpbin` under `bar` namespace is broken.

Reviewer 2: nit: rather than "broken", say that it doesn't work. 
Also, has this beed added to the external_ca e2e test?

Author: no, this has not been added into our external_ca e2e test yet.
